# Discovery

_(c) AMWA 2018, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

NMOS Discovery makes use of the DNS Service Discovery protocol as described in [RFC 6763](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6763). DNS-SD specifies a mechanism for the use of Unicast or Multicast DNS for the purpose of identifying one or more endpoints on a network associated with a named service.

One DNS-SD service type is defined by this specification:

* **_nmos-system._tcp:** A logical host which advertises a System API.

Advertisements of the above type is accompanied by DNS TXT records as specified within the API RAML documentation.

## Implementation Notes

It is expected that timeouts specified by DNS-SD and DNS specifications will be abided by when maintaining a cache, however clients may wish to temporarily mark particular advertisements as invalid where they have timed out or produced HTTP 5xx errors during API interactions. In the case of multicast DNS the re-query mechanism should be used, and is particularly important for servers which cannot unregister their mDNS announcements before going offline.

Due to the caching mechanisms present within mDNS implementations, if a service disappears from the network without cleanly removing its mDNS announcement, it will still be present in the caches of browsing systems until the defined expiry time (120 seconds to 75 minutes dependent on record type). When mDNS advertised data is found to be invalid (for example by performing an HTTP request to an advertised service API and seeing a timeout), the procedure defined in [RFC 6762](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6762) section 10.2 should be followed. Additionally, [RFC 6762](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6762) section 10.5 may be used to pre-empt these failures.
